
### :name_badge: closures  

````
function makeMultiplier(multiplier) {  
    
    // var multiplier = 2;  
    //wanna know value of multiplier inside b   
   
    function b () {  
       console.log('multiplier is: ' + multiplier);  
    }   
    b();
    

    return (
            function(num) {
                return multiplier * num;
            
            }
    ); //return


}
````

:sunrise: **Function makeMultiplier** is going to take a **passed multiplier argument** supplied to it,
which is going to **return another function** as part of 
its return value; that returned function is going to **take
an argument(a number)**, that is going to **multiply it
using the multiplier** provided in the outer function



:fuelpump: var doubleAll = makeMultiplier(2); 
   
//pass a num 10   
console.log(doubleAll(10));   
`returns 20`


#### why is value of multiplier 2 inside of b:question:  

- when a function is executed, it gets its own execution
  context, it gets a 'this' variable, and a reference
  to its outer environment.   
  Multiplier not defined inside of b so goes after
  outer env.; finds it and executes it on b.
  
#### return statement inside of makeMultiplier :loudspeaker:

- return statement doesn't really create its own execution environment,
  because this is not a function execution but just a function
  value.   
  
- it's a function object that gets returned back to
  the caller of makeMultiplier function.
- Therefore, it has not execution context, no 'this' variable,
  and no outer env access.

````
inside of makeMultiplier function
   b();
      
  
      return (
              function(num) {
                  return multiplier * num;
              
              }
      ); //return
      
  }//makeMultiplier
  
  then:
    //return function above goes in var doubleAll
    
    var doubleAll = makeMultiplier(2);
    //multiply by num 10
    console.log(doubleAll(10));
    
````

    var doubleAll is now equal to :
        
    
        return (
           function(num) {
              return multiplier * num;
    
           }
        ); //return
        
 
:trumpet: Only in the NEXT line:
    
        console.log(doubleAll(10));
        
 is where this function get finally executed. :wind_chime:
 
 > which means, it now has its own execution env, 'this' variable
   and able to reach out to its outer function/ scope if
   need be.


#### what about the 'multiplier value' :question:
> this is the mutliplier 2 shown here below again:

````
var doubleAll = makeMultiplier(2);
    //multiply by num 10
    console.log(doubleAll(10));
````
Ok, at the time `console.log(doubleAll(10))` is executing,
the `makeMultiplier` function (the entire function) is no longer in the execution
stack. It did the return of the function to doubleAll and
it finished

### :monkey: WAIT, the fun part:
The reason it still works is because of JS Closures.  :bulb:

Since a function like this returned from inside
of this function. JavaScript, preserves its outer
lexical environment memory space for this function.

- When we call doubleAll(10), it will go ahead and execute
  this function (the return function value, inside of
  makeMultiplier).
- Then will create its own execution environment,
- Look for multiplier variable first in its own
  exec environment, will not find it, and
- then will look for this var in its outer environment
- and this outer memory space will still remain, even
  though, makeMulitplier function no longer exists.
  







:100:
