## handling Events

:zap: if you wanna to take care of a task when something
  happens, you have to captured that event, which is
  done through event registration - doing something
  when an event takes place      
  
:zap: events handlers are basically functions that you bind using
specific methods to certain events that happen in the browser.


### ex events:
- when page loads in a browser
- user moves the mouse over a link
- when a video finished loading
- when a form is submitted
- user clicked something, keyup etc


### :cactus: <kbd>option I</kbd> placing event straight on html
````
    <button onblur="sayHello();">sayWhat</button>
````
  
- adds non html content to your page 

- since in the `onblur()`, `onclick()` event, we are
  not doing anything to change the context, simply
  executing the function at that location, thus it remains
  the same.
  
#### :cactus: `this` variable on separate `<script>`  file would point to ` window object`
  (cause is being define in the global context)  
  
  
### :cactus: <kbd>option II</kbd> binding the function to the click event

- its called unobstrusive `event` binding cause
  the `html` doesn't need to know anything about
  your javaScript
  
Ex

````
    document.querySelector('button')
    .addEventListener('click', sayHello);

````
> select an **element**, listen for the **click** event      
>  and what that happened call **sayHello()**.

#### :postbox: `this` points to?   
the **this** variable, inside of function **now points**
to the **button element**;  which makes sense cause that
is the **event that click the function**.

#### :postbox: <kbd>option II.5</kbd> or part of 2
**Another similar way** to assign that click handler,
instead **using** the **onclick** property    

Ex. 
we're **selecting** the **button element**, and **setting** its **onclick**
**property** to be the **value** of the **function**, sayHello.
(**without parentheses**) :triangular_flag_on_post:
````
    document.querySelector('button')
            .onclick = sayHello;
             
````
#### :loudspeaker:    **Note:**    
You can always use whatever **onclick**, **onblur**, **on whatever**
as **a property** of the **element** you are **selecting**.

#### :cactus: `this` points to?
Here the `this` variable, it's pointing/ being **executed inside** 
of the **button object** so, the same: **button element**.

### :loudspeaker: inline onclick event vs onclick events on `<script>` file

````     
    document.querySelector('button')
        .addEventListener('click', sayHello);
               
````
this way above provides a bit more flexibility than
inline events.


:cactus: Ex.:   
`As I'm typing`, I want the name of the **button**/ label value
to **change**.

> this is very easy to do if the `this` variable
  inside of the event handler **already points directly
  to the target element**      
  
  **Clicking** on **button** now **will result** on **ALSO** the
  value of the **button changing to ` Said it dont forget it!!`**  :tada:
  
> and so `this below` :arrow_down: is better than once again having to select the button and change its label.  :japanese_goblin:
  
````
    //event handling
    function sayHello (event) {
        this.textContent = "Said it dont forget it!!";
        var name = document.
                   getElementById('name').value;
        var message = "hello " + name;
        
        document
        .getElementById('content')
        .textContent = message;
    
    }

````
<hr>
<br>
## difference between these 2 types of Event Listener:  :alien:

### number 2 allows you to check for multiple events with a single call.
-  Is called **Event Propagation**  :mushroom:
-  `only problem`: **not** supported by **IE8** and older browser - 
-  `Still` the **Best Way**  :mushroom:


1. `Looks like an inline onclick event`  :beetle:
    document.getElementById('id').onclick = function() { 
        document.write('you did it');
    }

2. `addEventListener()`  :beetle:
    looks like dot notation because:
        - asks for type of event,
        - a function
        - true or false (propagation type)
    ex.
```    
    document.getElementById('id').addEventListener('click', function() {
        console.log('clicked');
    }, false);
```


### IE8 uses `attachEvent()`  :alien:
    ex.
        document.getElementById('id').attachEvent('onclick',function() {
            console.log('clicked');
        });

> and it doesn't event propagation.  :watch:


## once you capture an event  :alien:
- you received an event **object** back from the browser

ex.
```
    document.getElementById('id').addEventListener('click', function(e) {
        console.log(e);

    }, false);
```

### event info: :alien:
- event type  //ex click event  :movie_camera:
- timestamp  //time at which the event happened
- defaultPrevented  //preventing default behavior from happening

### target info :alien:
- currentTarget   //element event was assigned to
- target  //element event originated from
- srcElement   //actual element that fired the event
- fromElement //last 2 related they deal with mouse over and mouse out events
- toElement   //llast 2 related they deal with mouse over and mouse out events\

### coordinate info  :alien:
- screen X,Y  //position relative to the user's screen  :chestnut:
- client X,Y  //position relative to the window
- page X,Y     //events relative to the HTML document
- offset X,Y   //X,Y positions relative to the element that fired the events

## event propagation  :alien:
- lets you have a single element capture all the events of its children element
- the reason to use **addEventListener**







### :loudspeaker: DOMContentLoaded `event`
- part of the life cycle event of the page
- lets you assign events to elements once they load,
  but before anything else loads.
  - before any images
  - before any css etc
  
:cactus: Since we're going to be **listening for the
event**, we **NO LONGER** need to provide the `<script>`
at the bottom of the page. :x:

Ex.:

````
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', 
        function(event) {
        //every event handler function gets the event argument above  
        
           //add function sayHello in it
           function sayHello (event) {
               this.textContent = "Said it dont forget it!!";
               var name = document.
                   getElementById('name').value;
               var message = "hello " + name;
            
               document
               .getElementById('content')
               .textContent = message;
        
           }//sayHello    
             
        }//DOMContentLoaded
     );
   

````
:tropical_drink: So now we have the **entire function sitting inside**
of the **addEventListener**.


### Events execution example:  :rocket:

 - :rooster: will print **LOAD** on page load
 - :rooster: will print **RESIZED** on page resize
 - :rooster: will print **CLICKED** on button clicked

````
<html>
  <body onload="message('LOAD');" onresize="message(RESIZED);">
    <head>
      <title>testi</title>
    </head>
  </body>
  
  
  <button type="button" onclick="message('CLICKED');">
  button</button>

   <div id="output"></div>

  
  
<script>
function message(e) {
  
   var output = document.getElementById('output');
  
    return output.textContent = e;
  
}
</script>

 </body>
</html>

````



:100:
